# API
An Application Programming Interface (API) is a contract that allows code to talk to other code. APIs are the building blocks of modern software because they allow for sharing of resources and services across applications, organizations, and devices.

# Why are APIs important?
1. APIs help developers integrate exciting features and build automation without reinventing the wheel
ex: using a Weather API instead of launching your weather balloons

2. APIs allow enterprises to open up their product for faster innovation
ex: apps that interact with Twitter or Meta APIs by posting on your behalf or reading tweets

3. APIs can be products themselves
ex: Software as a Service (SaaS) products like Stripe's payment APIs or Twilio's text messaging and email APIs

- You can think of APIs as being like a waiter at a restaurant, serving as a go-between for the customer and the kitchen. 

- A customer who wants soup doesn't go into the kitchen to cook. They don't even have to know how to make soup! They only have to know how to ask the waiter for soup, expecting the waiter to bring back soup.

# Types:
While this course will focus on Web APIs, it is important to know that "API" can apply to a broad range of interfaces.

- Hardware APIs
Interface for software to talk to hardware.
Example: How your phone's camera talks to the operating system. 

- Software Library APIs
Interface for directly consuming code from another code base.
Example: Using methods from a library you import into your application.

- Web APIs
Interface for communicating across code bases over a network.
Example: Fetching current stock prices from a finance API over the internet.

# Architectures
- REST (Representational State Transfer) (most used)
- GraphQL
- WebSockets
- webhooks
- SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)
- gRPC (Google Remote Procedure Call)
- MQTT (MQ Telemetry Transport)

# REST APIs
Some traits of REST APIs include not storing session state between requests, the ability to cache, and the ability to send and receive various data types.

# Access
1. Public API
2. Private API
3. Partner API

# postman
working with api before was 
- using cURL (have many limitation)
>curl https://api.github.com/users/postmanlabs

- now a days we use postman

